---
title: 02.12.15
layout: post
tags: mscentipede
---

Very few runs have finished since yesterday we seem to be stuck on a lot of -log likelihood valleys, which blows. The iterations go on forever.

What to do? Restart if model fails to converge? But that suggests some fallibility to the model and would ask for multiple runs across all PWMs, which is not palatable (nor, realistically, feasible). Things that need to be done are piling up - prepare all the back-end TF binding stuff, and also go back to the more straight-forward windows near TSS stuff, which is easier to interpret. 
 
Told Shyam about possible bug, he was looking into it, will hopefully find out more later today. If it is a bug I am THIS close to wanting to go back to basic centipede, but then I will have to wrestle with all the input files and that is not worth my time, to be honest. 

Should maybe read some papers instead.

**update: msCentipede is ignoring the first line in the input bed motif file, treating it as a header instead. Need to fix.**

*update 2: the problem in my previous post about 10,000 sites is not actually a problem - msCentipede learns the model on the basis of the first 10,000 motifs, as per the manual:*

```
The software is designed to run in two separate steps. In the first step, optimal values for the model parameters are estimated using a subset of all motif instances. In the second step, posterior probability of factor binding is inferred for all motif instances. Since accurate estimates of model parameters can be obtained using 5000-10000 motif instances, this strategy enables efficient inference for those transcription factors that have orders of magnitude more motif instances genomewide. If more motif instances are available in the file than the value of the flag --batch, then batch number of motif instances that have the highest PWM score are used in learning model parameters.
```

It'll be worth playing with the number of motif sites going in and seeing if that improves model learning; I'm going to launch a few tests tonight and see what happens*